Claude code is not a chatbot. It's the
AI that does the work for you. You're
still copy pasting outputs into your
project. You're still the one doing the
actual work that stops today. This thing
reads your files, writes the code, and
ships it. In this video, we go from zero
to full deployment. No coding
experience. Every command included. I'm
Chris, founder of Execution Squad. I
built an AI consulting business to
$600,000 in one year. Then I shut it
down because I watched what it was doing
to people. Let's start. Beginner track
sections 1 through 5. If you're new to
Claude Code, start here and stop at the
split moment. [music] Before we start,
two things. You need a Claude Pro plan.
Free plan doesn't include Claude Code.
Check current pricing at claude.ai.
Second, go to code.claude.com/doccks.
That's your documentation home.
Everything we cover lives there. Done.
Let's install. You're looking at the
official Claude Code documentation. Find
the install command here. Scroll down
until you see a curl command. It starts
with curl. Copy it. Open your terminal.
Mac command plus space search terminal
Windows open cmd. Paste the command and
hit enter. Watch it run. Done. Type
claude and hit enter. You're in. Look at
the welcome screen. Bottom of the box
shows your model, your plan, and your
working directory. That's your session
info. Opus 4.6 your plan and the folder
you're working in. All right, there. If
you don't have an Anthropic account yet,
go to anthropic.com and sign up. Then
type /loin include code and follow the
prompt. Browser opens. Login. Come back
when it's done. You're in. Installed and
authenticated. Quick note, you can also
run claude code inside a visual editor.
Two options worth knowing. First, Visual
Studio Code. Install the Claude Code
extension from the extensions panel.
Look for the anthropic verified version
with a check mark. Second, anti-gravity.
Google's AI coding platform built agent
first from the ground up. Same clawed
code capabilities in both, just a visual
interface instead of a plain terminal.
And terminal is better for advanced use.
Start with whatever feels natural.
Everything in this tutorial works in
both. I'll be using Antiggravity for the
demos in this video. Download
Antigravity at anti-gravity.google and
sign in with your personal Gmail
account. Once you're in, open the
extensions panel on the left sidebar.
Search Claude Code. Find the anthropic
verified version with the check mark and
install it. That's it. Claude Code is
now running inside Anti-Gravity. Once
it's installed, look at the top right
corner. You'll see the Claude Code icon.
Click it. That opens the chat panel
where you start your conversation.
That's where everything happens. Section
two, claude.md, your project brain. This
is the most important concept in the
video. Pay attention. Claude.md is a
file that gets injected into every
conversation before your first message.
You never see it in chat. Claude reads
it before you say a single word. Think
of a ship leaving a harbor. A one-deree
error at departure means missing your
destination by thousands of kilome.
Claude.m MD sets that angle before
anything else runs. Here's why it
matters practically. Without it, Claude
starts from zero every session. With it,
Claude already knows your project, your
rules, your preferences. It also cuts
your token spend because Claude doesn't
reread all your project files every
time. Claude MD loads every session and
it's always billable. So, keep it tight.
Let me put it another way. Imagine
hiring a contractor every single
morning. Every morning they show up and
they don't remember anything from
yesterday. They don't know your project.
They don't know your standards. They
don't know what you've already tried
that didn't work. So you spend the first
30 minutes of every session just
catching them up. That's what working
without claude.md feels like. You're
reexplaining context every single time.
Claude
MD is the briefing document that's
already on their desk when they walk in.
They read it. They know the rules and
they start working immediately. One
naming rule. The file must be called
claude.md capital letters. Case matters.
Place it in your project root or
inside.claude/cloud.md.
There are three layers. Global at
tilda/.claude/claude.md
applies to every workspace you open.
Local at.claude/claude.md
applies to the current project only.
Enterprise is system level. Ignore it.
You won't need it. Global beats local.
In practice, you control the global
rules and team members manage their own
local ones. Think about when this
matters. Your global claude.md
might say always use TypeScript, never
use JavaScript, and always respond in
Spanish. That applies everywhere. Your
local one might say, "This project uses
superbase for the database." And the API
roots live in /src/api/
global handles your identity. Local
handles the project. They work together.
If they ever conflict, global wins. That
hierarchy is important to understand
because if you put a project specific
rule in your global file, it leaks into
every other project. Keep them clean.
Every serious clawed code project has a
clawed folder. The dot at the front
hides it from file explorers. That's
standard [music] convention. Inside it
lives everything. For now, our setup is
simple. Just the claw.md file. As your
project grows, you can add more files
inside this folder for agents, skills,
rules, and MCP configuration. The local
rule is worth knowing even now. Any file
with local in the name is get ignored.
It never leaves your machine. API keys,
tokens, personal overrides all go here.
And instead of one huge cloud MD, you
can split it into focused files inside a
rules folder. Code-style MD, testing.m
MD, security MD, frontend MD. To do it,
just tell claude splitclaude.m MD into
its component rules using the claude
code rule specification. It handles the
rest. Here's why splitting matters. When
your claude.m MD hits 300, 400, 500
lines, it becomes hard to maintain. You
change [music] one thing in the testing
section and accidentally break a rule in
the security section. Splitting it into
focused files means each file has one
job. Your code style rules live in one
place. Your testing rules live in
another. You can update one without
touching the others. And when you
onboard a new team member, they can read
just the file that's relevant to them
instead of a 500 line wall of text. But
don't split too early. Start with a
single clawed MD. When it gets messy and
hard to maintain, that's when you split.
Premature splitting creates the opposite
problem. Too many small files that are
hard to find and easy to forget about.
Here's what a bad claude MD looks like.
2,000 words reads like a document, not a
rule set. Most important instructions
buried in the middle. Claude will mostly
ignore it. I've seen people paste entire
API documentation into their Claude MD.
Hundreds of lines of endpoint
descriptions, parameter lists, response
formats. Claude doesn't [music] need
that. Claude can read the actual API
docs from your project files at runtime.
What it needs include MD is the rule.
Always use the V3 endpoint, never the
V2, not the documentation of what the
endpoint does. There's a massive
difference between telling Claude how to
behave and giving Claude reference
material. Claude MD is for behavior.
Reference material lives in your project
files. Another common mistake. People
write their Claude MD like they're
writing an essay. Full paragraphs,
transitional sentences, context setting,
introductions. Claude doesn't need a
story. It needs instructions. Use
tailwind for all styling. No inline CSS,
no CSS modules. That's three rules in
three lines. Compare that to when
working on the front end of this
project, please make sure to use
tailwind CSS for styling purposes. We
prefer not to use inline styles or CSS
modules as they don't align with our
team's conventions. Same information,
four times the tokens, zero additional
value. Good claude.md is the opposite.
First line is your most important rule.
Always if there's one thing Claude must
never do, it goes at line one. Below
that, bullet points. Short, dense, each
one actionable. 200 lines maximum.
Longer than that, and it's carrying dead
weight. This is primacy bias. Claude
remembers the top best, the middle,
least, the end, second best. Write your
Claude MD accordingly. This changes how
you structure everything. Your most
critical rules go at the very top. Line
one, line two, line three. Things that
would break your project if violated.
than your general coding standards in
the middle. Then your less critical
preferences at the bottom because the
bottom is the second strongest recall
position. The middle is the dead zone.
If you have a rule in line 150 of a
300line file, Claude might miss it. Move
it up or move it down. Never leave
important things in the middle. And
here's a practical tip. When Claude
makes the same mistake twice, that's
your signal. Don't just fix it in the
chat. Go add a rule to your Claude MD.
Never use relative imports in the / API
folder. Always add error handling to
database queries. Test files go in
tests, not next to the source file.
Every repeated mistake becomes a
permanent rule over time. Your claw.md
becomes a perfect reflection of how you
want your project built. It's not
something you write once, it's something
that grows with you. Run /init first in
any new project folder. Use bullet
points and short headings. High
information density. Put critical rules
at the very top. Treat it like technical
debt. Review and prune it regularly. Add
a rule. Every time Claude makes the same
mistake two or three times, keep it to
200 to 500 lines maximum. Don't dump
entire style guides or API docs. It
wastes tokens and degrades quality.
Don't write vague rules like be smart or
make no mistakes. Claude ignores them.
That last point deserves emphasis. Vague
rules are invisible to Claude. Be
careful with the database means nothing.
Always use transactions for multi-table
writes. Never delete rows. Use soft
deletes with a deleted underscore
timestamp. That means something. Every
rule should be specific enough that you
could check whether Claude followed it
or not. If you can't verify it, it's not
a rule. It's a wish. One more thing.
Claude also has a memory MD file. Say
remember that X and it saves across
sessions. Useful for personal
preferences that don't belong in your
rules. You don't need to manage it.
Claude handles it automatically.
The difference between memory and
claude.md is simple. Claude.md is
project rules shared, deliberate,
maintained by you. Memory is personal
context. Things like I prefer dark mode
examples or I'm working on the billing
feature this week. Memory is convenient,
but it's not reliable for critical
rules. If something matters to your
project's quality, put it in claude.md.
If it's a personal preference, that
would be nice, but not critical. Let me
handle it. Section three, build a
website. the screenshot loop. This is
the method you'll use most. It's the one
that actually works. Go to goalie.e
website. Browse the designs. Pick one
you want to replicate. Right click on
the page and select inspect or press
command plus shift plus i on Mac.
Control + shift plus i on Windows. Dev
tools opens. Click the device toolbar
icon and set width to 1,920,
height to 180. That captures the full
desktop layout. Now open the command
pallet with command plus shift + p on
Mac or control plus shift + p on
windows. Type screenshot and select
capture full-size screenshot. Browser
downloads the image. Head to
resizepng.com.
Upload it. Bring it under 5 mgabytes.
Download it. Open claude code. Paste the
screenshot directly into the chat. Then
go back to dev tools. Find the body tag
in the elements panel. Rightclick it.
Select copy styles and paste that into
the same message. Now type your
instruction. Uh recreate this website
design exactly. Match the layout fonts,
colors, and spacing. Output uh clean
HTML and CSS. Hit enter. First pass.
Open it in the browser. Maybe 80% there.
Colors. Close. Layout. Right. Some
spacing off. Take a screenshot of the
current version. Paste it back into claw
code alongside the original and [music]
tell it here is the current version next
to the original. Close the gap. Focus on
the spacing, font weight, and card
alignment. Second pass significantly
closer. That's the loop. Task do verify.
Every iteration tightens it. Keep going
until you're satisfied. There's no limit
on how many rounds you run. Each pass
gets closer. The rule underneath all of
this. Without a verification step,
screenshot comparison, automated tests,
anything. You lose most of the value. AI
isn't valuable because it's precise.
It's valuable because it iterates fast.
Build the loop. Don't skip it. Two other
approaches worth knowing. Hold the Fn
key and voice dump your requirements.
You speak much faster than you type and
Claude extracts what matters. Or browse
21st. For pre-built component prompts
best for specific UI elements like
buttons and cards. If you're building
seriously, listen up. Every Friday, I
run a free live training where I break
down the five numbers that explain why
you have zero clients and the system
that fixes it. One student made $30,000
in 70 days. Another got his first client
in seven days. Show up live. You get the
diagnostic template my paid clients use.
No replay. iChristley.com/training.
Link in the description. That covers
website building. Now, let's talk about
how you control what Claude is allowed
to do. Section four, permissions and
plan mode. Four permission modes. Toggle
between them with shift plus tab. Ask
before edits is the default. Asks before
any file change. Use when learning or
doing highstakes edits. Edit
automatically auto accepts edits but
still asks before new file creation. Use
for most intermediate work. Plan mode is
read only. No changes. Use for complex
task planning. Bypass permissions has no
restrictions whatsoever. Power users
only with caution. Right now you're in
ask before edits mode. That's the
default. Claude asks permission before
changing anything. Hit shift plus tab.
You move to edit automatically. Shift
plus tab again, plan mode, read only.
Claude can think and research but won't
touch any files. Let me explain why
these modes exist and when you'd
actually switch between them. Ask before
edits is training wheels. It's there so
you can see exactly what Claude is about
to do before it does it. Every file
change, every new file, Claude stops and
asks. When you're new, this is valuable.
You learn what Claude is doing. You
understand the changes. You build trust.
But once you've been using Claude code
for a week or two, this mode becomes a
bottleneck. You're clicking yes 50 times
in a row because you already know what
Claude is doing. That's when you switch.
Edit automatically is where most people
should live dayto-day. Claude makes file
changes without asking. It just does it.
But it still asks before creating brand
new files. That's an important safety
net. Claude can edit your existing code
freely, but it can't suddenly create 15
new files you didn't expect without
checking with you first. This is the
sweet spot between speed and control.
You're fast, but you're not reckless.
There's also a fourth mode called bypass
permissions. No restrictions, no asking.
Claude acts immediately on every
instruction. It requires enabling
separately in settings. Use it only when
you're confident in the [music] task.
And periodically ask Claude to clean up
the workspace. Temp files and unused
libraries accumulate fast. A word of
caution on bypass. I've seen people turn
it on and forget about it. Claude starts
creating files, installing packages,
modifying configs, all without asking.
If you're running a well-defined task
with a clear scope, that's fine. But if
you give a vague prompt in bypass mode,
Claude will make decisions for you that
you might not agree with, and you won't
know until you look at the damage. My
rule, use bypass for tasks you've done
before and fully understand. Never for
something new or experimental. And when
you're done with the task, switch back.
Don't leave it on. Here's a pattern that
works well in practice. Start every new
project in ask before edits. Get
comfortable with what Claude is doing.
After the first session, switch to edit
automatically for the rest of the build.
If you hit a complex decision point like
choosing between two different database
architectures, switch to plan mode
temporarily. Think it through then
switch back. Bypass only for repetitive
well understood bulk tasks like rename
every instance of X to Y across the
codebase. Match the mode to the risk
level of what you're doing right now,
not what you were doing 10 minutes ago.
Plan mode. Use it more than you think.
It's read only. Claude browses the web,
reads your files, reasons through the
problem, and outputs a plan document.
Zero changes made. Think about what
happens without it. You build the wrong
thing, test it, rebuild it, test again.
You're burning an hour without realizing
it. Plus the token cost of all that back
and forth. Plan first. Catch the problem
before a line of code is written.
Blueprint changes cost nothing.
Construction changes cost everything. I
cannot stress this enough. Plan mode is
the single biggest moneysaver in Claude
code. Not because planning is free, it
costs tokens, too. But because building
the wrong thing costs 10 times more
every time you let Claude start coding
without a plan. You're gambling that it
guesses your intent correctly on the
first try. Sometimes it does. Often it
doesn't. And when it doesn't, you're not
just fixing one thing. You're unwinding
decisions that are now baked into your
file structure, your database schema,
your component hierarchy. One wrong
assumption at the start cascades into 20
fixes later. Think about it from a token
perspective. A plan costs you maybe a
few thousand tokens. Building the wrong
thing and rebuilding it cost you tens of
thousands. I've watched people burn
through their entire daily token budget
because they skipped the planning step
and spent the whole session going back
and forth with Claude trying to fix an
architecture that was wrong from the
beginning. 5 minutes of planning would
have saved them an hour of building
[music]
and rebuilding. Here's when you should
always use plan mode first. Anytime
you're starting a new project from
scratch, always plan first. Second,
anytime you're adding a major feature
that touches multiple files. Third,
anytime you're not sure how something
should work, if there's any ambiguity in
your head about what you want, plan mode
forces you to resolve it before code
exists. Fourth, anytime you're about to
integrate a third-party service, Stripe,
Superbase, an external API. The
integration points are where the most
mistakes happen, and a plan catches them
early. And here's a habit that separates
beginners from people who actually ship
fast. Read the plan. Don't just glance
at it and say, "Looks good." Actually
read it. Check the file structure. Check
the tech stack decisions. Check the user
flow. If something feels off, tell
Claude to revise the plan. Revising a
plan takes seconds. Revising build code
takes the entire session. The plan is
your last chance to catch mistakes for
free. Switch to plan mode with shift
plus tab. type. I want to build a client
onboarding system for my coaching
business. It needs a form where new
clients fill out their goals and
background. A way to automatically send
them a welcome email with next steps and
a dashboard where I can track all active
clients and their progress. What's the
best approach? Claude researches and
reasons, not touching a single file.
Then it outputs a structured plan,
overview, text stack, user flow, file
structure, stepby-step build order. Read
through it. Notice what it caught before
a line of code was written. It already
made a significant architecture decision
for you. Public intake form for clients.
Separate password protected dashboard
for admin only. Two completely different
access levels. If you'd started building
without a plan, you might have built
everything behind a login and locked out
your own clients from submitting their
form. Fix it now, not midbu. Switch out
of plan mode and build [music] from a
blueprint, not from guesswork. That
example right there is worth the entire
section. A public form versus a
protected dashboard is a fundamental
architecture split. It affects your
routting, your authentication logic,
your database permissions, everything.
If you'd caught that mistake midbu,
you'd be ripping out half your code and
starting over. In plan mode, it cost you
nothing. Claude flagged it in 30
seconds. That's the whole point. One
more thing about plan mode that people
don't realize, the plan itself becomes a
reference document. After Claude builds
the project, you can always go back to
the plan and check whether the build
matches what was agreed. It's your
blueprint. If Claude drifted from the
plan during building, you can point to
it and say, "This isn't what we planned.
Fix it." Without a plan, you have
nothing to compare against. You're just
guessing whether the output matches your
original intent. The plan makes intent
explicit. That's powerful. Section five,
full stack app built. This is the most
complex section in the beginner track.
You don't need to understand everything
happening under the hood. Follow the
steps in order. Claude handles the
technical details. This is the whole
beginner workflow in one go. We're
building a proposal generator. Login,
proposal creation, e signatures,
payments, templates. Let's build it.
Start with a fresh folder. No files,
just clude code open. Step one, switch
to plan mode first. Then type your
requirements directly into claude code.
Say something like, I want to build a
tool where I can create business
proposals for clients. Clients should be
able to log in, view their proposal,
sign it digitally, and pay a deposit. I
want to be able to set the price and
create templates for different service
types. Hit enter. Step two. Claude will
ask a few clarifying questions.
Framework, preference, database,
signature style, payment type. Answer
them. No preference on framework.
Superbase for the database. Proper drawn
signature one-time deposit. Claude
outputs a full plan. Read through it
enough to feel confident. You're just
checking it described your product
correctly. Step three, switch to edit
automatically. Tell Claude to start
building. Step four, while Claude
builds, open Superbase in another tab.
Create a new project. Name it anything.
Go to project settings, then API. Copy
the project URL and the anon/public key.
When Claude asks for them, paste them
in. Step five, open Stripe in another
tab. Create a sandbox account if you
don't have one. Go to developers, then
API keys. Copy the publishable key and
secret key from the test environment.
When Claude asks, paste them in. Step
six. Claude will output a SQL
migration script. Open the Superbase SQL
editor. Paste the migration. Click run.
Tables created. Done. Step seven. Claude
finishes building. Open your terminal.
Navigate to the project folder and run
npm rundev. Open the local host URL in
your browser. Log in with your admin
account. You're in. The app is live with
orth and database fully connected. From
here, you'd wire up Stripe for payments.
Add e- signatures. Build out email
notifications. All single prompts. Each
one follows the same pattern. Tell
Claude what you want. Let it build.
Verify the result. Takes a few minutes
each. When you're ready to go live, one
prompt pushes it to GitHub and deploys
to Netlfy. Environment variables. Build
config. Domain setup. Claude handles all
of it. You get a live URL at the end. Or
connected, database running, payments
wired up, the whole thing maybe 15 to 20
minutes start to finish. That's the
beginner track. Every step from here
follows the same workflow you just
learned. One tip. When Claude tells you
to do something on an external service,
just ask, can you do all these for me?
Claude handles more than you'd expect.
Beginner track ends here. Come back to
the advanced track when you've used the
basics for a while. What follows is
context management, token economics,
skills, MCPs, and sub aents. These are
the systems that separate someone who
uses claude code from someone who runs
it. We go deeper. Claude code advanced
track sections 6 through 9. If you have
used the basics, start here. Section
six, context management and token
economics. Context management is
handling tokens in a prompt as
effectively as possible. master this
section and everything else in the
advanced track costs you less to run.
Most people treat Claude code like an
unlimited resource. They type Claude
response. They type more. They don't
think about what's happening under the
hood. Then they hit a wall. Claude
starts forgetting things they said 20
minutes ago. Responses get worse. The
session feels sluggish. They think
Claude is broken. It's not broken. The
context window is full. Everything
they've been saying, every file Claude
read, every response Claude gave, it's
all sitting in memory. and there's a
hard ceiling. When you hit it, Claude
starts dropping the oldest information
to make room for new information. That's
when quality collapses. Context
management is how you prevent that from
ever happening. And there's a cost
dimension, too. Every token that loads
into your context window is billable.
Your Claude MD, your MCP tools, your
conversation history, all of it costs
money every time Claude processes a
message. The bigger your context, the
more you pay per interaction. So context
management isn't just about quality.
It's about your wallet. The people who
understand this section spend a fraction
of what everyone else spends and get
better results. Your primary diagnostic
tool is /context. Run it any time to see
exactly where you stand. First, the
definition. A context window is the
total tokens a model can process in one
session. Your window size depends on
your model and plan. Run / context to
see yours. And one thing worth knowing,
context window size is not the same as
model intelligence. Separate dimensions
entirely. That distinction trips people
up. They think a bigger context window
means a smarter model. It doesn't.
Context window is memory capacity. How
much information the model can hold at
once. Intelligence is reasoning ability.
How well the model thinks through
problems. You can have a massive context
window and mediocre reasoning or a
smaller context window and brilliant
reasoning. They're independent. Opus has
strong reasoning. That's why it's the
parent agent. Sonnet and Haiku have
large context windows and are cheaper.
That's why they're sub agents. You match
the tool to the job. Not every job needs
the smartest model. Most jobs need
enough memory and decent reasoning.
Here's what loads before your first
message even sends. System prompt your
claud
and rules. Variable cost. You control
this. System tools about 17,000 tokens
every session. Cannot remove. MCP tools
variable. You control this. Memory MD
small typically under 100 tokens
automanaged skills front matter only
about 60 to 65 tokens per skill you
control this messages grow with
conversation unavoidable free space is
the majority of window in a fresh basic
setup open a fresh claude code session
don't type anything yet type /context
and ask it to display the breakdown hit
enter look at this you haven't typed a
single real message and you've already
used a chunk of your context text
window. That big number is system tools.
Around 17,000 tokens, built-in cloud
code capabilities, bash, web search,
file reading, file writing. Every
session can't remove them. Next, your
claw.md. Whatever's in it, it's loaded
right now. And MCP tools, if you have
any installed, they're loading here.
This is where costs spike fast.
Everything in this breakdown is
billable. Every session, before you say
a word, here's a mental model that
helps. Think of your context window as a
room. The system tools are the furniture
that came with the room. You can't move
it out. Your clawed MD is a bookshelf
you brought in. You control how big it
is. Your MCP tools are extra equipment.
Each [music] one takes floor space. And
your conversation is people walking into
the room. The more people, the more
crowded it gets. At some point, people
start getting pushed out [music] the
door. That's auto compaction. Your job
is to keep the room as open as possible
so the conversation has space to
breathe. Seven strategies to keep your
token spend low. These are the ones that
actually move the needle. Strategy one,
check your spend any time. Type /cost
and you get your running total for the
session. Make this a habit. Check/cost
every 15 to 20 minutes during a session.
Not because you need to panic about
spending, but because it gives you
awareness. You start to develop an
intuition for what's expensive and
what's cheap. You'll notice that a
single vague prompt that triggers Claude
to read 10 files costs more than five
specific prompts combined. That
awareness changes how you work. You stop
being wasteful without even thinking
about it. Strategy two, type/clear when
switching tasks. Context nearly zeroed.
Use this every time you move to a
completely different task. This is the
most underused command in clude code.
People finish building a feature then
start working on a completely different
feature in the same session. All that
history from the first feature is still
sitting in context. Claude is carrying
the memory of every file it read, every
change it made, every conversation you
had, none of which is relevant to the
new task. That dead weight makes Claude
slower and dumber on the new task/clear
wipes it clean. Fresh start. It takes
one second and it immediately improves
the quality of everything that follows.
Clean slate clear focus. One thing to
watch out for though, slashclear is
aggressive. It wipes almost everything.
If there's something from the previous
task that's relevant to the next task,
either put it in your claw.md first or
use /compact instead. /clear is for
clean brakes. /compact is for selective
memory. Strategy three, custom
compaction. type/compact followed by
what you want to keep. Something like
focus on the AI agent workflow and the
API integration. Discard the debugging
conversation. Claude compresses the
history and prioritizes what you told it
to keep. Autocompaction triggers
automatically when your context gets
full, but manual compaction lets you
control what survives. The difference
between autoco compaction and manual
compaction is control. When claude
autocompacts, it decides what to keep
and what to drop. Usually it does a
decent job, but sometimes it drops
something important because it didn't
know that detail mattered to you. Manual
compaction puts you in charge. You tell
Claude exactly what's important. Keep
the database schema decisions and the
API endpoint structure. Everything else
can go. Now Claude compresses
intelligently, preserving the things you
care about and discarding the noise.
Here's when to manually compact. You're
mid session, maybe 30 to 40 minutes in.
You've had a productive conversation,
built some things, debugged some issues,
but you can feel the context getting
heavy. Responses are slightly slower.
Claude is occasionally forgetting
something you said earlier. That's your
signal. Don't wait for autoco compaction
to kick in. Manually compact now while
you still control what survives. If you
wait until the context is completely
full, autocompaction makes the choice
for you, and it might not choose what
you'd choose. Strategy four, add a
conciseness instruction near the top of
your claw. MD. Write as succinctly as
possible. Give me barebones information
unless I ask for more. Every response
tightens. Fewer tokens per exchange.
This one is subtle, but it compounds
massively. Every clawed response is
tokens. A verbose response might be 500
tokens. A concise response might be 100
tokens. Over a 50 message session.
That's the difference between 25,000
tokens of responses and 5,000 tokens of
responses. Same information, five times
the cost difference. And here's the
thing. Verbose responses aren't just
expensive, they're worse. They fill your
context with fluff. Claude starts
processing its own verbose explanations
as part of the conversation history,
which makes future responses even more
bloated. Conciseness isn't just a style
preference, it's a performance
optimization. Strategy five, write model
for the task. Use set or haiku for sub
aents. Cheaper, larger context windows.
Reserve opus for the parent agent doing
synthesis. [music] Most tasks don't need
opus. That's hard for people to hear
because they want the best model for
everything. But think about what a sub
agent actually does. It runs a web
search and summarizes the results. It
reviews code for obvious issues. It
generates test files. These are
well-defined focused tasks. Sonnet
handles them perfectly. Haiku handles
most of them, too. The parent agent, the
one that's making architecture
decisions, coordinating between sub
agents, synthesizing multiple sources of
information. That's where Opus earns its
cost. Using Opus for a simple code
review is like hiring a CEO to do data
entry. It works, but you're wasting
money. Strategy six, audit your MCPs. If
your MCP tools are eating a significant
portion of context, Claude can search
tools dynamically instead of loading all
of them up front. Run/context to see
exactly what's loading. This catches
people off guard. They install three or
four MCPS because they sounded cool,
then wonder why their context is half
full before they start working. Each MCP
loads its tool definitions into context.
Some MCPs register dozens of tools. Each
tool has a name, description, parameter
list. It adds up fast. I've seen setups
where MCPS alone consume 30 to 40% of
the total context window. That's almost
half your working memory gone before you
type a single word. Run/context. Look at
the MCP line and ask yourself, am I
actually using all of these right now?
If the answer is no, disconnect the ones
you don't need for this session. You can
always reconnect them later. Strategy
seven, write specific prompts. Fix this
one feature in this file beats improve
this codebase every time. Specific
prompts cut token waste dramatically and
frontload your research in plan mode
before building. Web requests and API
calls made mid session load large
amounts of tokens. Do the research phase
first then build. When you say improve
this codebase, Claude has to read every
file to understand what you might mean.
It scans your entire project, loads
dozens of files into context, reasons
about what improve could mean, then
makes changes that may or may not match
your intent. That one vague prompt just
consumed thousands of tokens in file
reads alone. Compare that to fix the
error handling in /
src/appi/payments.ts.
Add try catch around the Stripe API
calls. Claude reads one file, makes one
targeted change. Done. A fraction of the
tokens and the result is exactly what
you wanted. The research point is
equally important. When Claude browses
the web or calls an API midsession, the
responses get loaded into context. A
single web page can be thousands of
tokens. Three or four web searches
during a build session and your context
is suddenly packed with research data
that's no longer relevant. The fix is
simple. Do all your research in plan
mode first. Read the docs, check the
APIs, figure out the approach, then
slash clear and start building with a
clean context. The plan lives in your
head or in a file, not eating your
context window. All seven strategies
boil down to one principle. Respect the
context window. It's not infinite. It's
not free. The less junk you put in it,
the better Claude performs and the less
you pay. Every optimization here
compounds over time. A 10% improvement
in context efficiency across hundreds of
sessions saves you real money in real
time. Section seven, skills. Now we get
to the real leverage. Everything up to
this point has been about using Claude
code session by session. You type a
prompt. Claude does the work. Session
ends. Next time you start over. Skills
change that completely. Skills turn
one-time work into permanent capability.
You build it once. And from that point
forward, Claude can do that task
instantly every time you ask. It's the
difference between cooking a meal from
scratch every night and having a recipe
that someone else follows perfectly
while you do something else. A skill is
a reusable checklist you give Claude for
something you do repeatedly. Scraping
leads, qualifying prospects, updating
CRM, generating reports. In this demo,
lead scraping that previously took 30
minutes manually completed in 87 seconds
with a skill. Without a skill, here's
what happens. You tell Claude to scrape
leads. Claude asks clarifying questions.
What kind of leads? What data do you
need? Where should the results go? You
answer. Claude writes a script from
scratch. Runs it. Hits an error. Debugs
it. Runs it again. Maybe hits another
error. Fixes that. Finally gets results.
30 minutes gone. With a skill, all of
those decisions are already made. The
checklist exists. The scripts exist.
Claude reads the skill, matches your
request to it, and executes immediately.
No questions, no writing from scratch,
no debugging cycle. The skill already
solved every problem the first time
around. And here's what makes skills
fundamentally different from just saving
a prompt or a template. A skill isn't a
static script. It's a combination of
instructions and executable code held
together by Claude's intelligence. When
something unexpected happens, an API
changes, a website restructures, a rate
limit kicks in, Claude doesn't crash and
stop. It reads the checklist,
understands the goal, and finds a way
around the problem in real time. A
static script breaks. A skill adapts.
Here's the file structure
inside.Cloud/skills/youcreate
a folder for each skill. Inside that
folder is skill.md and a scripts
subfolder with the actual code files.
Two parts. skill.md is the conductor. It
contains the goal inputs, process
checklist, and reference information. It
tells Claude what to do and in what
order. Claude uses its own intelligence
to handle failures and branch around
errors in real time. The scripts folder
is the musicians actual executable
Python code, deterministic, repeatable,
called by skill.md exactly like tools.
You don't need to write or understand
the Python. Claude generates it. This is
the part that trips people up. They
think they need to be a developer to
build skills. You don't. You describe
what you want in plain language. Claude
writes the code. Claude writes the
checklist. Claude connects them
together. Your job is to describe the
task clearly and test the result. If the
result isn't right, you tell Claude
what's wrong and it fixes both the code
and the checklist. You're the director.
Claude is the entire production team.
This is genuinely one of the most
underappreciated features. Let's say
your lead scraping skill runs and hits a
rate limit on Google search. Claude
detects the error, adds a delay between
requests, and completes the task. But it
doesn't stop there. It goes back to
skill.md and adds a new note. Rate limit
detected. Wait 2 seconds between search
requests. Next time you run the skill,
that problem never happens again. The
skill learn from its own failure. Over
weeks and months of use, your skills
accumulate these fixes. They become
incredibly robust without you ever
touching them. Every run makes them
smarter. Think about what that means at
scale. If you have 20 skills running
regularly, each one is silently
improving itself every time it
encounters a problem. After a month,
those skills are dramatically more
reliable than they were on day one.
That's compounding reliability, and it
costs you nothing. You didn't write the
fix. You didn't even know about the
problem. Claude handled it end to end,
and they're extremely token efficient.
Only the top section of skill.md loads
by default. Name, description, allowed
tools. The full skill loads only when
Claude decides it's needed or you
explicitly invoke it. Dozens of skills
combined cost almost nothing. A single
MCP tool often costs more than your
entire skill library. An MCP tool loads
its entire definition into your context
window every session. Tool name,
description, parameters, response
format, all of it. A single MCP with 20
tools might cost you 10 to 20,000 tokens
every session. whether you use those
tools or not. A skill, the front matter
loads, name, description, maybe a list
of allowed tools. That's it. Under 100
tokens, the full checklist and scripts
only load when you actually invoke the
skill. So, you can have 50 skills
installed and they barely register in
your context. That's a fundamentally
different cost model. MCPS pay rent
whether they work or not. Skills only
cost you when they're actually doing
something. This is why the skill first
mindset matters. Every recurring task in
your workflow should eventually become a
skill. Not because skills are fun to
build, but because every skill you
create permanently reduces the time and
cost of that task. The first time takes
30 minutes to build the skill. Every
time after that takes seconds. If you do
that task twice a week, you've paid back
the build cost in the first week.
Everything after that is pure profit in
time and in tokens. Part one, build the
skill. Type out what do you want the
skill to do. Something like, I want a
skill that automates client outreach. I
give it an industry and a target region.
It finds potential clients matching that
description. Grabs their name, website,
phone number, and email where possible.
Scores them as high, medium, or low
priority based on relevance. [music] and
exports the results to a Google sheet.
Paste that transcript into claude code
and type build this as a skill
include/skills/scrape
slash. One tip on describing skills, be
specific about inputs and outputs. I
give it an industry and a target region.
That's clear. Claude knows exactly what
parameters to expect. It exports the
results to a Google sheet. That's a
clear output. The more specific you are
about what goes in and what comes out,
the better the skill will be. Vague
descriptions like it finds leads and
does stuff with them produce vague
skills. Precise descriptions produce
precise skills. Claude generates
skill.md and the Python scripts. Watch
the file explorer. Open skill.md and
look at the structure. The front matter
at the top is all that loads by default.
Name description allowed tools. The full
checklist loads only when you invoke it.
That's why dozens of skills can exist
with almost no token cost. Skill is
built. Now let's run it. Part two,
invoke the skill type. Scrape me 10,000
cleaning services across Canada. Claude
matches the request to the skill. Watch
the execution. It starts with a small
test scrape to verify quality before
scaling up. Once it passes, it runs the
full scrape, classifies every lead by
priority, and uploads the results to a
Google sheet. Notice what just happened.
You didn't say use the scrape leads
skill. You just described what you
wanted. Claude matched your request to
the right skill automatically based on
the description in the front matter.
That's why the name and description in
skill.md matter. If your description is
clear and specific, Claude finds the
right skill every time. If it's vague,
Claude might miss the match and try to
do the task from scratch. Good
descriptions are like good file names.
They make everything findable. Done.
1,000 cleaning service leads name,
website, phone, email, classified under
2 minutes. Now, imagine this. You have
10 skills like this. One scrapes leads.
One qualifies them. One drafts outreach
emails. One schedules follow-ups. One
generates weekly reports. Each one takes
seconds to run. Each one improves itself
over time. Each one costs almost nothing
in tokens. That's not a tool. That's a
system and it runs while you do other
things. That's the leverage I was
talking about at the start of this
section. Skills turn claw code from an
assistant into an operation. Section 8,
model context protocol, MCP. MCPS are
skills except someone else builds and
maintains them. Developer teams package
integrations, Gmail, ClickUp, Slack,
Chrome browser control, and you install
them into Cloud Code with a JSo N
snippet. Cloud gets access to that
software the same way it has bash and
web search natively. Where to find MCPS?
MCPservers.org,
github.com/modelcontext
protocol/servers and mcp.market.
Security note. These are thirdparty
libraries. Not all are safe or vetted.
Verify before installing into any
production workspace. Browse
mcpservers.org.
Find the ClickUp MCP. Every MCP has a JS
snippet on its page. Copy it. Paste it
into claude code and type install this
in my local workspace. Claude finds the
config file and installs it. Now open a
new Claude code instance. Required step.
The MCP won't load in the current
session. [music] type/context in the new
instance. Look at that. Check the token
cost. Now, compare that to what your
skills cost. You already saw the
numbers. That's the trade-off. MCPS are
fast to install. They're expensive to
run. Here's the move that saves you
money long-term. Install the MCP, test
the task, confirm it works, then tell
Claude, "Take what you just did, convert
it to a skill, use the API endpoints
directly, and check my other skills for
formatting reference." The new skill has
a tiny token footprint compared to the
MCP. same outcome, fraction of the cost.
In real tests, tasks that took minutes
and thousands of tokens via MCP finished
in seconds with a skill. One exception
worth keeping permanently, the Chrome
Dev Tools MCP. It lets Claude control
and inspect a live Chrome browser.
Significantly higher quality and faster
than built-in browser tools. Verify the
install location before recording. Use
cases, browse sites, take screenshots,
click elements, fill forms, extract page
text, scrape without an API. Section
nine, sub aents. Sub aents are not a
cure all. Get that straight first. The
hype around agents is massive right now.
Everyone's talking about multi- aent
systems, autonomous AI fleets, agents,
managing agents. It sounds incredible,
and some of it is real. But most people
who jump into sub agents too early end
up spending more money, getting worse
results, and debugging coordination
problems that didn't need to exist. Sub
agents are powerful when used correctly.
They're expensive disasters when used
carelessly. This section teaches you the
difference. Most things you can do with
sub agents, you can do with a single
parent agent. Their actual value is
speed through parallelization and cost
savings through cheaper models. Let me
be specific about what parallelization
actually means here. Without sub agents,
Claude does everything sequentially.
Write code, then review it, then test
it, then fix issues, then test again.
One thing at a time. With sub agents,
the parent writes code and immediately
spawns a reviewer and a tester running
at the same time. Two tasks happening
simultaneously instead of backto back.
For a single small task, that
parallelization doesn't matter much. For
a large project with dozens of files and
hundreds of tests, it cuts your build
time dramatically. The cost savings
angle is equally important. Opus is
expensive. It's the most capable model,
but you're paying premium for that
capability. Most sub agent tasks don't
need premium capability. A code reviewer
doesn't need OPUS level intelligence to
spot a missing error handler. A test
generator doesn't need OPUS to write
unit tests. Sonnet handles these tasks
perfectly at a fraction of the cost. So
instead of one expensive Opus agent
doing everything, you have one Opus
agent making the hard decisions and
three cheap Sonnet agents doing the
execution work. Same output, lower bill.
Here's how they work. Each sub agent
lives in the do.claude/ aents/folder.
Each one has its own self-contained
ephemeral context window. Results always
return to the parent agent that called
them. Context is temporary. If a sub
agent fails, recovery requires a rerun.
That temporary part is critical. A sub
agent's context window is born when the
parent spawns it and dies when the task
is complete. It doesn't carry memory
from previous runs. It doesn't know what
happened in the last session. It doesn't
know what other sub aents are doing. It
receives a task, does the task, returns
the result, and disappears. That's it.
This is by design. Ephemeral context
means sub aents are cheap. They don't
carry baggage. But it also means they're
isolated. [music]
If a sub aent needs information from
another sub aent, the parent has to pass
it explicitly. They can't talk to each
other. The parent is the only bridge.
And the failure model is important to
understand. If a sub aent crashes
halfway through a task, there's no
resume. There's no pick up where you
left off. The sub aents context is gone.
You rerun the entire task from scratch.
That's why keeping tasks small matters
so much. A sub agent that's supposed to
review five files and crashes on file
three. You rerun the entire five file
review. a sub agent that reviews one
file. If it crashes, you rerun one file.
Small tasks mean small failure costs.
Now, the most important concept in this
section, the reliability math. 10 agents
with a 95% individual success rate means
a coin flip that all 10 finish
correctly. That's not a theoretical edge
case. That's what happens in practice.
Let that sink in. 95% sounds great for a
single agent. You'd take those odds any
day. But probability compounds
multiplicatively when you need all
agents to succeed. It's not 95% * 10.
It's 0.95
to the power of 10. That's 59.9%.
Roughly a coin flip. And at 50 agents,
7.7%, you're almost guaranteed at least
one failure. This isn't a theoretical
math exercise. This is what happens when
people spin up ambitious multi-agent
workflows without thinking about
reliability. Here's what that looks like
in practice. You spawn 10 sub agents to
process 10 different sections of your
codebase. Nine finish perfectly. One
fails silently. It returns a result, but
the result is wrong. Maybe it misread a
file. Maybe it made a bad judgment call.
Now you have nine good results and one
bad result mixed together. The parent
agent doesn't know which one is bad. It
synthesizes all 10 results into the
final output. and that one bad result
corrupts the whole thing. You don't
notice until you're testing the final
product and something doesn't work. Now
you're debugging across 10 agent outputs
trying to find the one that went wrong.
That scenario is real. I'm not
exaggerating. It happens constantly when
people scale agents without thinking
about reliability. The implication is
simple. Keep every sub aents task as
simple and focused as possible. Never
compound tasks. Every added complexity
multiplies failure risk. across the
fleet. What does simple and focused
actually look like? Here's the rule. A
sub agent should do exactly one thing,
not review the code and run the tests.
That's two things. Review the code is
one agent. Run the tests is another
agent. If one fails, the other still
succeeded. You isolate failures. You can
rerun just the part that broke. The
moment you combine two tasks into one
agent, you've doubled the failure
surface and made debugging twice as
hard. Another way to think about it, if
you can't describe the sub agents task
in one sentence, it's too complex.
Review this file for error handling
issues. One sentence, good. Review this
file for error handling issues. Then
check the test coverage. Then suggest
improvements based on best practices.
Then generate a report. That's four
tasks pretending to be one. Split them.
Each one becomes its own agent. Yes,
it's more agents, but each one is
simple, reliable, and independently
restartable. type create three sub aents
and save them to claude/ aents/code
reviewer that receives finished code,
reviews it with fresh eyes and returns
specific issues. A QA agent that
generates tests, runs them, and fixes
failures. A research agent that runs
parallel web searches and returns a
compressed summary. Claude builds the
three agent definition files. Watch them
appear in the agents folder, then open a
new Claude code instance to load them.
Required step, same rule as MCPS. Notice
the design of these three agents. Each
one does exactly one thing. The code
reviewer reviews. It doesn't fix. It
returns issues. The parent decides what
to fix. The QA agent tests. It generates
tests, runs them, and handles failures
within the testing domain. It doesn't
touch the source code directly. The
research agent searches and summarizes.
It doesn't make decisions based on what
it finds. It returns compressed
information for the parent to act on.
Every agent has a single responsibility
and a clear handoff point. That's the
pattern. When you design your own
agents, follow it. Add this workflow to
your claude.m MD. Write parent agent
writes code. Code review. Spawn the code
reviewer. Fix blocking issues. QA. Spawn
the QA agent. Generate and run tests.
Fix failures. Ship. Adding this workflow
to your collord. MD is important because
it makes the pattern permanent. Without
it, the parent agent has to figure out
when to spawn sub agents every time.
With it, the workflow is automatic.
Parent writes code, spawns the reviewer,
fixes issues, spawns QA, handles test
failures, ships same sequence every
time, consistent, reliable, and because
it's in claude.md, every session starts
with this workflow already loaded. You
don't have to explain it again. A few
best practices before you start spinning
up agents. Use Sonnet or Haiku for sub
agents. Reserve opus for the parent.
Keep spawn tasks simple and single
focused. Never compound. Don't return
large outputs to the parent. Have sub
agents apply results directly. Always
open a new clawed code instance after
generating agents. Use sub aents with
skills for pre-existing workflows, not
for simple one-off queries. And one
thing people learn the hard way.
Spinning up a sub aent for a simple task
can take just as long as having the
parent do it. save them for work that
actually benefits from parallelization.
Spawning a sub agent has overhead.
Claude needs to create the agent, load
its context, send it the task, wait for
the result, and process the return. For
a complex task that takes 5 minutes of
actual work, that overhead is
negligible. For a simple task that takes
10 seconds, the overhead might be longer
than the task itself. You spent more
time setting up the agent than the agent
spent working. That's negative value.
The break even point is roughly this. If
the task takes less than 30 seconds for
the parent to do directly, don't spawn a
sub agent. Just let the parent handle
it. Sub agents earn their cost on tasks
that are either timeintensive,
parallelizable, or both. The don't
return large outputs to the parent point
deserves more explanation, too. When a
sub agent finishes, it sends results
back to the parent agent. Those results
land in the parents context window. If a
sub aent returns a 2,000 line code
review, that's thousands of tokens
suddenly dumped into the parents
context. Multiply that by five sub aents
and the parents context is flooded with
sub aent output. The fix is simple.
Instead of returning large results, have
the sub agent apply changes directly.
The code reviewer writes its findings to
a file. The QA agent fixes the test
failures itself. The parent just gets a
short status message. Review complete.
Three issues found and documented in
review.md.
Tiny context footprint, same outcome.
One level up agent teams, they exist.
They're experimental, disabled by
default, and roughly seven times the
token cost of a single thread. Instead
of reporting to a parent, team members
are fully independent clawed instances
that can message each other and
self-coordinate through a shared task
list. This is a fundamentally different
model from sub aents. With sub agents,
there's a clear hierarchy. Parent at the
top, sub aents below. Results flow
upward. With agent teams, there's no
hierarchy. Every agent is equal. They
share a task list. They pick up tasks,
complete them, and post results that
other agents can see. They coordinate
among themselves without a parent
telling them what to do. It's closer to
how a real team works. And like a real
team, it can be incredibly productive or
incredibly chaotic, depending on how you
set it up. The use cases are real.
Design exploration spawn three agents
and each builds a different website
variant. Adversarial analysis debate
agents argue whether a security finding
is real. Large scale codebase audits the
cost is also real. Careless agent team
use can run $10,000 plus per day. That
$10,000 number isn't hypothetical. Each
agent in a team is a full clawed
instance running independently. Every
message between agents costs tokens.
Every task pickup costs tokens. Every
coordination step costs tokens. And
because there is no parent controlling
the flow, agents can get into loops. One
agent posts a result. Another agent
questions it. The first agent defends
it. The second agent re-examines back
and forth. Burning tokens on a debate
that might not even matter. Without
guard rails, agent teams will happily
spend your entire budget arguing with
each other. That's why they're
experimental. That's why they're
disabled by default. So when do agent
teams actually make sense? when the task
genuinely requires independent
perspectives that can't be achieved
sequentially. Design exploration is the
perfect example. You want three
completely different website designs. If
you use sub agents, the parents taste
influences all three because it's
directing them with a team. Each agent
works independently, brings its own
perspective, and the results are
genuinely different. That diversity of
output is what you're paying for. If you
don't need diverse perspectives, if you
just need the same task done three times
in parallel, use sub agents. They're
cheaper and more predictable. Enable
them with this include/ settings.json.
Set claude_code_experimental_agent
teams to one in your env configuration.
Start small. Watch the token counter.
And if you're running multiple agents on
the same codebase, look into git workre.
They give each agent an isolated folder.
So they can't override [music]
each other's work. Git work trees solve
a real problem. When two agents edit the
same file at the same time, one
overwrites the other. That's not a bug.
It's a fundamental conflict. Git work
trees create separate copies of your
codebase, one for each agent. Agent A
works in its copy. Agent B works in its
copy. When they're done, you merge the
results. No conflicts during execution.
Conflicts only happen at merge time
where you can handle them deliberately.
If you're running agent teams, work
trees are practically required. Without
them, agents will corrupt each other's
work and you'll spend more time fixing
conflicts than you saved through
parallelization. Here's my honest
recommendation on agent teams. Don't use
them yet unless you've already mastered
sub agents. Sub agents teach you how
agents work, how they fail, how to keep
tasks simple, and how to manage token
costs. Agent teams amplify all of those
lessons by seven times. If you haven't
learned to manage three sub agents
efficiently, five team agents will eat
your budget alive. Master sub agents
first. When you're comfortable, when
managing agents feels routine, then
experiment with teams on a small task
with the token counter open. That's the
responsible way in close what you can
build now. Here's where you are after
both tracks. You can build and deploy
websites using the screenshot loop in
minutes. You can build full stack web
apps with authentication, database, and
payments using plan mode, superbase, and
stripe. You can create reusable skills
for any recurring task. Install and
prototype with MCPs. Then convert to
skills for production. Run sub aents for
parallelizing bulk work with automatic
testing and code review. Manage token
costs proactively using
/context/compact/clear
and smart architectural choices and
build automated systems combining
scraping site generation email and
direct API skills. That's the system. AI
is your hands. You supply the direction.
Plan before you build, verify after you
build. Every Friday, I run a free live
training. The five numbers that explain
why you have zero clients. I show you
which number is broken and what to fix
this week. Show up live. You get the
diagnostic template. No replay.
icle.com/training.
Link in the description.